<div class="video"><iframe width="100%" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/e6VUv7HHsIU" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></div><br><div class="text">Responses Vary Widely To An Upcoming Change In U.S. Immigration Policy, We Explore The Cycles Of The Sun, And MIT Researchers Try To Evenly Divide An Oreo. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired April 21, 2022 - 04:00   ET

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.


CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Welcome to CNN. I`m Carl Azuz.

The issue of immigration is first up in today`s down the middle coverage,

Earlier this month, the Biden administration announced plans to eliminate an immigration rule called Title 42. It was put in place two years ago

during the Trump administration as the COVID pandemic was taking hold in the United States.

Title 42 is a public health policy. It was intended to keep migrants who might have been sick with coronavirus from entering America, and it did

that by allowing the U.S. government to expel migrants mostly by land to Mexico, though the U.S. has flown some back to their home countries in

Central and South America and the Caribbean.

The U.S. says there have been more than 1.7 million expulsions under Title 42 since it was put in place. Most of those occurred under the Biden

administration, but it now says title is no longer necessary because COVID conditions have improved and the U.S. has more tools to fight the virus.

So starting May 23rd the government plans to eliminate the rule. That will make it easier for migrants to enter America if they`re seeking asylum, if

they say they`ve been discriminated against in their home countries.

But it`s expected to lead to a major increase in the number of people trying to cross the border into the U.S. and critics are concerned that

could overwhelm America`s ability to deal with them. Republicans say last year more people entered the U.S. illegally than ever before. They say that

problem will get worse without Title 42 in place.

Some Democrats say the rule was illegal to begin with and that it unfairly kept asylum seekers out of America. But several other Democrats say before

the Biden administration removes the rule, it needs to have a plan in place for a potential surge in immigration. And a bipartisan group of lawmakers

is asking the government to delay its plans to remove Title 42.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): This park in downtown San Antonio has turned into a waiting area. For migrants who are exempt from

Title 42, the pandemic order who`s allowing immigration agents to swiftly return migrants to Mexico.

The city mayor, a Democrat, recently sending a letter to the Biden administration sounding the alarm about the unsustainable increase of

migrants. His administration warning that if Title 42 lifts, the city`s ability to meet the humanitarian need could be limited.

DHS estimates that thousands of more migrants could arrive at the border. Would you be ready to serve that many more migrants?

KATIE MYERS, BUS STATION COORDINATOR, INTERFAITH WELCOME COALITION: It`s daunting.

FLORES: Katie Myers from Interfaith Welcome Coalition says that on average, between 150 and 200 migrants arrived at this bus station every

day. Many with cell phones, the migrants say, issued and geolocated by the U.S. government.

It said, take a picture of yourself.

Some migrants confused and how to use the device to check in with immigration officials using facial recognition technology, an alternative

to detention rolled out by the Biden administration.

Another 300 to 500 migrants being dropped off at the airport every day says Myers. The latest spikes, she says, started mid March.

How many of you had money to buy a ticket to your destination?

And it came with a new challenge, migrants are arriving with no plan and no money. The results: sleeping at the park.

How many of you have slept in the park?

MYERS: There might be 10, 20, 25 men --

FLORES: Per night, says Myers.

That`s why Pastor Gavin Rogers says he recently opened a shelter at Travis Park Church. You see mostly men here because women with children are placed

in hotels, he says.

PASTOR GAVIN ROGERS, TRAVIS PARK CHURCH: They can shower. They can eat. They can receive the proper food and they can wait safely until they get

through San Antonio.

FLORES: On average, between 50 and 150 migrants sleep here every night, says Rogers, a nonprofit filling in the gaps for the federal government.

ROGERS: It falls on to nonprofits, the municipalities that are really indifferent to the local or national politics but have to find a local

solution.

FLORES: U.S. Congressman Henry Cuellar represents this area and he`s bucking his party on Title 42, saying that the Biden administration`s

intent to end the policy --

REP. HENRY CUELLAR (D-TX): Would be a mistake.

FLORES: So, when you asked the White House for a plan, what did they say?

CUELLAR: Well, they said they have a plan and I saw --

FLORES: Did they share the plan?

CUELLAR: They said we`re going to notify the non-for-profits that more people are coming in. That`s not a plan, that`s just a notification. They

said we`re going to bring the agents from the northern border over here. That`s only temporary.

FLORES: Most migrants stay in San Antonio a few nights. Jesse Amaya has been here 21 days. He says he`s waiting for his wife who is still in Mexico

waiting to cross.

What`s your biggest worry?

Her physical safety.

He says he plans to wait for her in San Antonio, the place they hope to call home.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

AZUZ (voice-over): Ten-second trivia:

Which of these stars is believed to be the smallest?

Aldebaran, the Sun, Sirius or Betelgeuse?

With a diameter of less than a million miles, our sun, according to NASA, is an average sized star and the smallest on this list.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

AZUZ: Space weather is next. It`s heavily influenced by the flares and ejections of the sun, which is estimated to be a 10,000 degree ball of

helium and hydrogen in the middle of our solar system.

NASA says it has a fleet of spacecraft that studied the sun`s activity, its environment and how what happens on its surface can impact what happens in

our atmosphere.

Rachel Crane explains why our nearest star is so mysterious.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

PROF. GUNTHER HASINGER, DIRECTOR OF SCIENCE, EUROPEAN SPACE AGENCY: The sun is what gives us life and supports us, but it also poses dangers. It is

governed by a strong, unknown, hidden force, the magnetic field.

RACHEL CRANE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Despite shining down on the earth for millennia, there`s still a lot we don`t know about the sun. One of the

biggest questions scientists are investigating now is how our host star`s magnetic field affects its regular cycle of activity. It`s called the solar

cycle.

The solar cycle is the roughly 11-year period of fluctuating activity of the sun`s magnetic field and over those 11 years, the sun`s poles

completely flip meaning the north pole becomes the south and the south the north. This cycle can be visibly measured by an increase and decrease of

sunspots on its surface.

The least sunspots in an 11-year period is considered solar minimum, while the most sunspot signifies the solar maximum. No two solar cycles are the

same, and often vary in activities

JOY NG, PRODUCER, NASA: What are sunspots and why are they dark?

CRANE: Sunspots appears as dark sports on the solar surface because they`re cooler than the rest of the sun, at 6,500 degrees Fahrenheit.

Cooler doesn`t sound like more active, right?

DR. NICOLA FOX, DIRECTOR, NASA: That`s actually a pocket of very, very intense magnetic field.

CRANE: The reason the temperature goes down is because the magnetic fields in those areas are so strong that they create a barrier, stopping heat from

the sun from reaching the surface.

Solar maximum also results in increased activity in the sun`s atmosphere known as the corona. That activity creates bright and active regions that

are rooted in the sunspots below and are the origin of solar flares or coronal mass ejections.

NICHOLAS CAGE, ACTOR: A super flare.

CRANE: Okay, so it`s not like a Nic Cage disaster movie, but solar maximum can have consequences in space and on earth. The sun impacts space weather

which can disrupt satellites, GPS and telecommunication systems, and it can endanger our infrastructure too, including the power grid. Plus, radiation

from the sun can be dangerous for astronauts working outside the ISS.

If we could better predict the timing and intensity of the solar cycle more measures could be taken to protect from the sun. But increased solar

activity can also create splendor for us here on the pale blue dot. Particles ejected from the sun interact with the gases in our atmosphere.

That intermingling results in the northern and southern lights a beautiful display of colors close to the earth`s poles.

So what causes the solar cycle? Well, we still don`t know, but NASA and the European Space Agency are on the case, sending probes closer than ever and

from new angles in hopes of filling in as many questions about the sun as they can.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

(MUSIC)

AZUZ: Scientists at MIT have been studying cookies? A researcher in mechanical engineering there says when she was little, she got frustrated

trying to evenly separate an Oreo so that both sides had the same amount of cookie and cream. A lot of times, one side gets all the cream the other

side gets none.

So her team built an Oreometer, a device that used a precise amount of force to try to split the cookie evenly. It could not. Seems there are just

too many factors at play including adhesion in the cream itself to perfectly divide an Oreo.

But at least their work was filling if not fulfilling or overall tasty if Oreo-under all performing. A plan which took a sandwich out of hands which

had a twist, it satisfies a hunger for sugar if not for answers, proving they`re not all black and white. I guess it just depends on which way the

cookie crumbles.

Burke High School gets today`s shout-out. It is great to see you watching from Omaha, Nebraska.

Youtube.com/CNN10 is the one and only place to request a shout-out. I`m Carl Azuz.

END
</div>