<div class="video"><iframe width="100%" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/WnmjP85qi_s" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></div><br><div class="text">War`s Impact On A Ukrainian Community; Sleeping Smart. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired April 28, 2022 - 04:00:00   ET

THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.


CARL AZUZ, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Welcome to this April 28 edition of our show. I`m Carl Azuz. Grateful for your presence.

We`re getting you up to speed on what`s happening in the nation of Ukraine. The Russian invasion of that country which Russia called a special military

operation began more than two months ago on February 24th. In recent days, fighting has gotten more intense in eastern Ukraine. Russia`s been sending

more military units there, and the Ukrainian military says it`s losing territory in some parts of the region.

Why eastern Ukraine?

Since 2014, people there who wanted independence from Ukraine`s government have been battling government troops. Russia supported these separatists

and now, that country says it wants to take control of two main areas of eastern Ukraine and possibly create a permanent Russian path, a Russian

strip of land that would run through southern Ukraine to Crimea, a peninsula that Russia took control of in 2014.

Could that happen? Previously, Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelenskyy said his country would be destroyed before it would give in to Russian demands

that Ukraine hand over eastern cities like Kharkiv and Mariupol. But shortly after that, President Zelenskyy stated he would discuss the status

of areas in eastern Ukraine if Russian President Vladimir Putin would agree to direct talks.

Is there any hope for some sort of peace deal?

Analysts say it doesn`t look likely at this point. On Tuesday, Russia`s leaders said the two sides had a, quote, serious breakthrough in talks last

month. But that it had been derailed by accusations that Russian troops had murdered civilians in the northern Ukrainian town of Bucha. Pictures from

satellites and drones appeared to show evidence that Russia committed war crimes but Russia called the images fake. So the fighting in Ukraine rages

on.

The United States is among several Western countries that have imposed sanctions on Russia. Penalties on its economy designed to pressure it to

stop its invasion. Russia says those have failed, but the U.S. and its allies have also supported Ukraine by sending it aid equipment and weapons.

Last Tuesday, we told you the U.S. government was sending $800 million worth of additional weapons to Ukraine. A day later, President Joe Biden

announced another $800 million was on the way.

CNN reports that Ukrainian troops need these armaments to withstand Russia`s assault on Eastern Ukraine. Russia`s government says if Western

countries continue sending weapons to Ukraine, there`s not much chance for peace.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): There`s no rest at night for the people of Kharkiv. Flares light up the sky as

artillery thunders through the air.

For nearly nine weeks, Ukraine`s second largest city has been shelled relentlessly. Only by day do you see the full scale of the destruction.

The neighborhood of Pavlovo Pole was hit repeatedly last month, as Russian forces try to push into the city. No site was spared, not even the local

nursery school.

So, it looks like this was some kind of a dormitory. You can see children`s beds here all around. And then in the next room over there was their

classroom.

Their shoes still litter the locker room. Mercifully, the school had been evacuated, so no children were killed in the strikes.

The mayor of Kharkiv says that 67 schools and 54 kindergartens have been hit here since the war began. What`s so striking when you look around is

that it`s so clearly not a military target. This is a residential neighborhood.

Just a few blocks away, the bare skeleton of an apartment building. Authorities say more than 2,000 houses have been hit here. Sounds of war

are never far away.

You can see this is what`s left of the bedroom here. It`s just astonishing.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

AZUZ (voice-over): Ten-second trivia:

Polysomnography can be used to study what?

Plants, sleep, mixtures or fiber?

Polysomnography records brain waves breathing blood oxygen levels and body movements during sleep.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

AZUZ: From sleep hygiene to sleep devices, there are a lot of tips and tools intended to help us get better sleep.

For starters medical experts say we should keep our TVs, computers and smartphones out of the room. We should try to go to bed at the same time

every night. We shouldn`t have caffeine or large meals before bedtime. It ought to be quiet dark and comfortable where we sleep, and experts on the

subject say the best sleep temperature is around 65 degrees Fahrenheit.

There`s not much debate about the health benefits of a good night`s rest. There is debate about some of the devices available that aim to improve and

measure sleep. Most of them are not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and critics say they`re not as accurate as polysomnography.

But that`s usually done in a lab not everyone has the time the equipment or the expertise to conduct a deep sleep study at home.

So, the quest to develop user-friendly devices to do that continues.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

RACHEL CRANE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Imagine being able to fall asleep, anywhere you want, any time you want.

Ziv Peremen says he can do both. But this 33-year-old has a PhD in neurocognitive science and has spent years studying how our brains work. He

knows some of us aren`t so lucky.

ZIV PEREMEN, CO-FOUNDER AND CEO, X-TRODES: There are so many people that suffer for post sleeping and even more suffer from poor quality of sleep

because of snoring partner or having a newborn that wake up every three hours.

CRANE: I have both of those things.

Technology probably can`t help me there, but what it can do is help you better understand sleep behaviors, how long you sleep and how much you toss

and turn. Beyond that, you`ll probably need something more sophisticated than a store-bought tracker.

PEREMEN: Today is our amazing solution for measuring sleep in wellness level. All kinds of watches, mattresses. But when you would like to measure

all the aspect of sleep, here you have a gap.

CRANE: And Peremen thinks this device could fill that gap, a band-aid like sleep tracker fitted with dozens of tiny sensors. They pick up electrical

activity in the body while you sleep, sending the data straight to a smart device, data like muscle activity, eye movement and even brain waves -- the

kind of information you normally only get at a clinic. This you can use at home, by yourself, for a tenth of the cost of a professional sleep study,

Peremen says.

The tracker is 10 years in the making and the reason Peremen co-founded his Israeli-based startup X-Trodes in 2020.

Even with growing interest in sleep, is medical grade testing of your sleep still a relatively niche market?

PEREMEN: We start to understand that sleep is a gold mine for understanding our health.

CRANE: A better data could also help medical researchers and not just ones who study sleep, Peremen says.

PEREMEN: We can identify both sleep disorders but also sleep patterns that related to other disorders.

CRANE: But for many of the new sleep gadgets on the market, accuracy remains hard to prove, say experts.

REBECCA ROBBINS, SLEEP SCIENTIST, INSTRUCTOR IN MEDICINE, HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL: Because it is truly complex to determine the staging of sleep, the

movement in and out of the various stages. So the best way for companies to do that would be to partner with scientists to make sure that their

algorithms are scoring sleep correctly and are giving information back to their consumers that is accurate.

CRANE: Peremen says his technology is currently being tested by independent researchers for validation. It still needs FDA approval, but if

that goes well, this tracker could be on the market by 2023.

PEREMEN: Part of our activity now is provide the system for all kinds of researchers to find new patterns during sleep.

CRANE: In the long run, that could help us all snooze just a bit longer.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

AZUZ: Let`s call this parents ain`t perfect Animal Kingdom edition. This is an eagle. It`s got somewhere to be, so it tells its baby, you just wait,

here and uh-oh. The little one apparently got tangled in a talon and tumbled down a cliff side in California. Its parent didn`t catch it but

nest cameras caught the whole thing on video. So, wildlife officials came out, rappelled to the stranded eaglet, used a duffel bag to return the baby

to its nest and they even built a sort of natural guard rail to try to keep this from happening again.

They say birds of a feather flock together in all weather, but an untethered eaglet despite being regal it, tumbled down another bluff side,

when it never ever took flight needed to wing in a prayer leverage from here to there, now it`s beat to rest at nest until the best of times will

bring the quest to test its mind, it`s right to take flight when it spreads its wings.

So glad I got through that.

We are going to Smithville, Tennessee, for today`s shout-out. Recognizing you, the students of DeKalb County High School.

As you know, the only place to request a mention on our show is at youtube.com/CNN10. I`m Carl Azuz.

END</div>